*** See https://gregsidal.github.io/stylotron/readme.html for a marked up version of this text

<br>
STYLOTRON  Readme
<br>
<br>

Stylotron (lib/stylotron.js) is a compact (~500 code lines) javascript library that uses patterns in plaintext documents to dynamically mark them up with structured html.

Markup is generated by applying a succession of patterns to a plaintext.  The matches of the most recently applied pattern are always marked up in the foreground.

Where matches are fully contained within others previously applied, typical nested markup is produced.  Matches that overlap or span others are segmented and the intersections are nested (since previously applied matches may have themselves been segmented, each set of matches is, technically speaking, nested inside and/or segmented around other segments).

<br>
Demo
<br><br>

Stylotron-demo.html explains in more detail how stylotron generates markup.

Since stylotron.js is just a text processor, it is likely to work on all browsers.  However, the demo has only been tested on chromium based browsers (it includes CSS and UI related functionality, which is more prone to render or behave differently on different browsers).

<br>
API
<br><br>
The call that generates html from plaintext and patterns is:

 htmltext = SOT.markup( plaintext, patternseries );

The full API is documented in the source.  The demo includes some 'patternseries' examples.

<br><br>

*  *  *

Companion Libraries
<br><br>
WYSIWYG editors require dynamic markup to function.  Companion libraries lib/texteditor.js and lib/stylotroneditor.js provide editor support.

Texteditor.js provides a basic editor and stylotroneditor.js provides an attachment that adds dynamic markup capability to it.

The editor libraries also provide undo/redo, regex search, and souped-up selections support.

Editordemo.html shows how to place editors into a web page.  WYSIWYG, code, and plaintext editors are implemented in the IDE (stylotronIDE.html).

The following call creates a basic editor that makes use of the default selections attachment, which keeps a highlight on the current selection when the editor loses focus:

editor = UI.stylotroneditor.createinit(
   'editor-id',
   {selections: {}},
   patternseries );

The full editor and attachment APIs are documented in the source.

Note that the editor libraries, editor demo, and IDE have only been tested on chromium based browsers.

<br>
Tools
<br><br>

StylotronIDE.html is a rudimentary IDE which was built from the above mentioned components.  It works best when used in conjunction with the browser's inspector.

Texteditor.html is a basic plaintext editor (notepad) with regex search and replace.

These tools run entirely in the browser and open/save files locally.  The portable self-contained versions (in the 'portable/' subdirectory) can be downloaded and run from the device; no internet connection is needed to use them and they can be freely shared.

<br>
Using AI Chatbots to Write Regular Expressions
<br><br>
After some experimentation, my conclusion is that the time it takes to write prompts for an AI to generate satisfactory regular expressions is greater than the time it takes to write the regex's directly, so there is actually an additional cost for using the bots for this purpose.
